---
title: "GSoC Week 7 - New beginnings"
date: 2025-07-13 00:00:00 +0800
categories: [GSoC, Software Engineering]
tags: [GSoC, Software Engineering]
---

### Highlights

* Both PRs finally merged in a single day
* Setup a new direction to continue

---

### Merging the PRs
After some internal discussion between my immediate mentor Hwayeon and Jason, the two PRs were finally deemed to be worthy of being in the master branch of SymPy. And they were merged. I was so happy to finally see my examples and code in the dev documentation, informing new users of the Wrapping Geometry capabilities of SymPy!

But this raised another question in my mind, what's next? There was still half of the project duration left, so I was curious about the direction that me and mentor were going to agree on.

### Choosing the new direction
After the end of a busy week, the Saturday meeting was all I was looking forward to. I had already wrote a document expressing my thoughts on the project so far and the possible directions we could take. I discussed on how my original proposal aimed at implementing 3 new classes ``WrappingCone``, ``WrappingSpheroid`` and ``WrappingTorus``. Each of these 3 directions would come with its own set of pros and cons, which I detailed in the document and presented to my mentor. After a bit of discussion we agreed on the following: We would implement the ``WrappingCone`` class, then add an example model for it too, and after this if there was any time left, we would possibly explore ``WrappingTorus`` or something else entirely.

Currently I am implementing the class and writing the tests for it, I will push the changes once I am confident of the code written.

