---
title: "GSoC Week 2 - Working on WrappingSphere example."
date: 2025-06-11 00:00:00 +0800
categories: [GSoC, docs]
tags: [GSoC, docs]
---

### Wrapping up the WrappingCylinder example

After making more review changes to the example, and painfully creating an svg image of the model in Figma, my mentors
were satisfied with my work and the PR was merged. My second mentor Jason Moore (@moorepants on github) reviewed most
of my changes very patiently, I got to learn a lot from him.

Something I found interesting here was, I had to manually find the tangent points for the model (something which I discussed in my previous blog). Jason suggested that we could have a method on the cylinder object that could give us the
tangent point. Something like ``WrappingCylinder.tangent_point(point, angle)`` here the ``angle`` parameter is to determine the unique tangent point associated with the ``point``. This is really interesting work for the future. 

### WrappingSphere Example Model

Initially we were thinking to integrate the ``WrappingSphere`` into the pre-existing [biomechanical model example](https://docs.sympy.org/latest/tutorials/physics/biomechanics/biomechanical-model-example.html).
I even created a PR for this and did manage to successfully integrate it into the example. However it did not make semantic sense as I had replaced a "pin joint" with the sphere, which actually allowed it more rotation that an actual pin joint. It
was actually another use case for the cylindrical wrapping geometry itself. Thus this PR was closed. My first mentor Hwayeon Kang actually suggested a simpler model, and I started working on it. 

Now I am waiting for review on the new biomech model.

PRs Created:
 - [PR #28135](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/28135)
 - [PR #28123](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/28123)
